# Filter a time series of vertical profiles ('vpts').

Filter a time series of vertical profiles ('vpts') by a start and end
time, for night or day time, or extract profile nearest to provided
timestamp. Use argument night = TRUE to select only time stamps between
sunset and sunrise, or night = FALSE to select daytime (sunrise to
sunset). Selection for night and day uses
[`check_night()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/check_night.md).

## Usage

``` r
filter_vpts(x, min, max, nearest, night, elev = -0.268, offset = 0)
```

## Arguments

- x:

  A `vpts` object.

- min:

  POSIXct date or character. Minimum datetime to be included.

- max:

  POSIXct date or character. Datetime up to this maximum included.

- nearest:

  POSIXct date or character. If specified, `min` and `max` are ignored
  and the profile (`vp`) nearest to the specified datetime is returned
  that matches the day/night selection criteria.

- night:

  When `TRUE` selects only nighttime profiles, when `FALSE` selects only
  daytime profiles, as classified by
  [`check_night()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/check_night.md).

- elev:

  Numeric (vector). Sun elevation in degrees defining nighttime. May
  also be a numeric vector of length two, with first element giving
  sunset elevation, and second element sunrise elevation.

- offset:

  Numeric (vector). Time duration in seconds by which to shift the start
  and end of nighttime. May also be a numeric vector of length two, with
  first element added to moment of sunset and second element added to
  moment of sunrise. See
  [`check_night()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/check_night.md)
  for details.

## Value

A `vpts` object, or a `vp` object when `nearest` is specified.

## Details

Returns profiles for which min \<= timestamp profile \< max. Selection
for night and day occurs by
[check_night](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/check_night.md).

## See also

- [`summary.vpts()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/summary.vpts.md)

- [`check_night()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/check_night.md)

## Examples

``` r
# Select profiles later than 02 Sep 2016

# Select the profile nearest to 2016-09-01 03:00 UTC
filter_vpts(example_vpts, nearest = "2016-09-01 03:00")
#>                Vertical profile (class vp)
#> 
#>        radar:  KBGM 
#>       source:  
#> nominal time:  2016-09-01 03:02:00 
#> generated by:   

# Select profiles between than 01:00 and 03:00 UTC on 02 Sep 2016
filter_vpts(example_vpts, min = "2016-09-02 01:00", max = "2016-09-02 03:00")
#>                    Irregular time series of vertical profiles (class vpts)
#> 
#>            radar:  KBGM 
#>       # profiles:  13 
#> time range (UTC):  2016-09-02 01:04:00 - 2016-09-02 02:59:00 
#>    time step (s):  min: 540     max:  600 

# Select daytime profiles (i.e. profiles between sunrise and sunset)
filter_vpts(example_vpts, night = FALSE)
#>                    Irregular time series of vertical profiles (class vpts)
#> 
#>            radar:  KBGM 
#>       # profiles:  910 
#> time range (UTC):  2016-09-01 10:35:00 - 2016-09-10 11:56:00 
#>    time step (s):  min: 180     max:  41460 

# Select nighttime profiles, with nights starting and ending at
# civil twilight (when the sun is 6 degrees below the horizon)
filter_vpts(example_vpts, night = TRUE, elev = -6)
#>                    Irregular time series of vertical profiles (class vpts)
#> 
#>            radar:  KBGM 
#>       # profiles:  938 
#> time range (UTC):  2016-09-01 00:10:00 - 2016-09-10 10:10:00 
#>    time step (s):  min: 180     max:  55200 

# Select nighttime profiles from 3h after sunset to 2h before sunrise
filter_vpts(example_vpts, night = TRUE, offset = c(3, -2)*3600)
#>                    Irregular time series of vertical profiles (class vpts)
#> 
#>            radar:  KBGM 
#>       # profiles:  578 
#> time range (UTC):  2016-09-01 02:39:00 - 2016-09-10 08:41:00 
#>    time step (s):  min: 180     max:  65460 
```
