# Posthoc precipitation filter

The posthoc precipitation filter assesses how much of the altitude
column has a high total reflectivity factor (biology + meteorology)
consistent with precipitation, and removes biological signals when there
is evidence for the presence of precipitation. Applied to vertical
profiles ('vp') or time series of vertical profiles ('vpts').

## Usage

``` r
filter_precip(
  x,
  dbz = ifelse(x$attributes$how$wavelength < 7 || is.null(x$attributes$how$wavelength),
    7, 20),
  range = 2500,
  alt_max = 3000,
  drop = FALSE,
  alt_min = 0,
  filter_all_heights = TRUE
)
```

## Arguments

- x:

  A `vp` or `vpts` object.

- dbz:

  The minimum reflectivity factor for precipitation in units dBZ.
  Defaults to 7 dBZ for C-band radars and 20 dBZ for S-band radars.

- range:

  The minimum altitude range with total reflectivity factor. `DBZH` \>
  `dbz` at which the filter is triggered in m.

- alt_max:

  Maximum altitude above ground level to consider in m.

- drop:

  When `TRUE` the profile is removed from the

- alt_min:

  Minimum altitude above ground level to consider in m.

- filter_all_heights:

  When `TRUE` and a precipitation event is detected, the entire altitude
  profile will be filtered. When `FALSE`, only the altitude layers
  between `alt_min` and `alt_max` will be filtered.

## Value

A `vpts` object or a `vp` object, depending on input `x`.

## Details

During precipitation events usually a high proportion of the altitude
column will show a high total reflectivity `DBZH` (which includes
biology + meteorology), because precipitation usually falls from several
kilometers high to the ground surface. Precipitation events are often
obvious in profile plots of quantity `DBZH` as reflectivity signals
extending from ground level to high altitudes far above the typical
altitudes where biology is expected. This filter identifies and removes
these cases.

The posthoc precipitation filter examines the total reflectivity factor
`DBZH` and calculates the altitude range at which `DBZH` is larger than
parameter `dbz`. Whenever this altitude range is larger than parameter
`range` (and `drop` is `FALSE`), the biology is removed by setting
profile quantities `dens` and `eta` to zero and profile quantity `dbz`
to `-Inf`. When parameter `drop` is `TRUE`, the profile is removed from
the time series altogether.

This posthoc precipitation filter is likely to remove biological
scatterers that co-occur with precipitation, for example biological
movements during isolated convective thunderstorms. It is more
aggressive than precipitation filters applied during vertical profile
generation with
[`calculate_vp()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/calculate_vp.md)
that attempt to remove precipitation and retain biology. The posthoc
precipitation filter is especially useful for analyses where you want to
minimize the risk of precipitation contamination, at the cost of
filtering out some biology during precipitation events.

Lowering the default minimum reflectivity (`dbz`) for precipitation
below 7 dBZ is not recommended, as most precipitation has a reflectivity
above 7 dBZ.

Parameter `range` should be chosen carefully, and should be higher than
the typical altitude where biological scatterers still reach a
reflectivity factor equal to `dbz`.

Note that at S-band wavelengths bird migration occurs much more
frequently in the reflectivity regime for precipitation than at C-band.
Therefore, at C-band lower settings for parameter `dbz` are appropriate
than at S-band.

## See also

- [eta_to_dbz](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/eta_to_dbz.md)

- [dbz_to_eta](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/dbz_to_eta.md)

## Examples

``` r
# rain periods are visible in quantity DBZH as dark vertical lines
# extending above 3 km height:
plot(regularize_vpts(example_vpts), quantity='DBZH')
#> projecting on 300 seconds interval grid...

# Apply posthoc filter to remove profiles during precipitation events:
# (regularization is applied to visualize removed profiles)
my_vpts <- regularize_vpts(filter_precip(example_vpts, drop=TRUE))
#> projecting on 360 seconds interval grid...
# verify that rain events have been removed:
plot(my_vpts, quantity='DBZH')

# the posthoc filter removes some biology during precipitation:
plot(my_vpts, quantity='dens')

# original retains more biology (but at the cost of a higher
# likelihood of occasional precipitation contamination):
plot(regularize_vpts(example_vpts), quantity='dens')
#> projecting on 300 seconds interval grid...

# filter can also be applied to single vp objects:
filter_precip(example_vp)
#>                Vertical profile (class vp)
#> 
#>        radar:  seang 
#>       source:  WMO:02606,RAD:SE50,PLC:Ängelholm,NOD:seang,ORG:82,CTY:643,CMT:Swedish radar 
#> nominal time:  2015-10-18 18:00:00 
#> generated by:  vol2bird 0.3.17 
```
