# Inspect a vertical profile (`vp`)

R base functions for inspecting a vertical profile of biological targets
(`vp`) object.

## Usage

``` r
# S3 method for class 'vp'
summary(object, ...)

is.vp(x)

# S3 method for class 'vp'
dim(x)
```

## Arguments

- object:

  A `vp` object.

- ...:

  Additional arguments affecting the summary produced.

- x:

  A `vp` object.

## Value

For `summary.vp()`: prints summary of the `vp` object.

For `is.vp()`: `TRUE` for an object of class `vp`, otherwise `FALSE`.

For `dim.vp()`: number of heights and quantities in a vertical profile
(`vp`).

## Details

A vertical profile of biological targets contains a collection of
quantities, organized in different (typically equally spaced) altitude
layers (height bins) above the earth's surface. A vertical profile
(`vp`) object is a list containing:

- `radar`: Radar identifier.

- `datetime`: Nominal time of the volume to which the scan belongs in
  UTC.

- `data`: A data.frame with the profile's quantities organized per
  height bin. Use
  [`get_quantity()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/get_quantity.md)
  to access these:

  - `height`: Height bin (lower bound) in m above sea level.

  - `u`: Ground speed component west to east in m/s.

  - `v`: Ground speed component south to north in m/s.

  - `w`: Vertical speed (unreliable!) in m/s.

  - `ff`: Horizontal ground speed in m/s.

  - `dd`: Ground speed direction in degrees clockwise from north.

  - `sd_vvp`: VVP radial velocity standard deviation in m/s.

  - `gap`: Angular data gap detected in T/F.

  - `dbz`: Animal reflectivity factor in dBZ.

  - `eta`: Animal reflectivity in cm^2/km^3.

  - `dens`: Animal density in animals/km^3.

  - `DBZH`: Total reflectivity factor (bio + meteo scattering) in dBZ.

  - `n`: Number of data points used for the ground speed estimates
    (quantities `u`, `v`, `w`, `ff`, `dd`).

  - `n_all`: Number of data points used for the radial velocity standard
    deviation estimate (quantity `sd_vvp`).

  - `n_dbz`: Number of data points used for reflectivity-based estimates
    (quantities `dbz`, `eta`, `dens`).

  - `n_dbz_all`: Number of data points used for the total reflectivity
    estimate (quantity `DBZH`).

- `attributes`: List of the vertical profile's `what`, `where` and `how`
  attributes.

## Conventions

- `NA`: Maps to `nodata` in the ODIM convention: value to denote areas
  void of data (never radiated).

- `NaN`: Maps to `undetect` in the ODIM convention: denote areas below
  the measurement detection threshold (radiated but nothing detected).
  The value is also used when there are too few datapoints to calculate
  a quantity.

- `0`: Maps to `0` in the ODIM convention: denote areas where the
  quantity has a measured value of zero (radiated and value zero
  detected or inferred).

It depends on a radar's detection threshold or signal to noise ratio
whether it safe to assume an `undetect` is equivalent to zero. When
dealing with close range data only (within 35 km), it is typically safe
to assume aerial densities (`dens`) and reflectivities (`eta`) are in
fact zero in case of undetects.

## See also

- [`calculate_vp()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/calculate_vp.md)

- [`read_vpfiles()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/read_vpfiles.md)

- [`example_vp`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/example_vp.md)

- [`get_quantity()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/get_quantity.md)

- [`plot.vp()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/plot.vp.md)

- [`as.data.frame.vp()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/as.data.frame.vp.md)

- [`bind_into_vpts()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/reference/bind_into_vpts.md)

## Examples

``` r
# Check if an object is of class vp
is.vp(example_vp)
#> [1] TRUE

# Get summary info
example_vp # Same as summary(example_vp) or print(example_vp)
#>                Vertical profile (class vp)
#> 
#>        radar:  seang 
#>       source:  WMO:02606,RAD:SE50,PLC:Ängelholm,NOD:seang,ORG:82,CTY:643,CMT:Swedish radar 
#> nominal time:  2015-10-18 18:00:00 
#> generated by:  vol2bird 0.3.17 

# Get dimensions
dim(example_vp)
#> [1] 25 16
```
