# Inspect an integrated profile (`vpi`)

R base functions for inspecting an integrated profile of biological
targets (`vpi`) object.

## Usage

``` r
# S3 method for class 'vpi'
summary(object, ...)

is.vpi(x)
```

## Arguments

- object:

  A `vpi` object.

- ...:

  Additional arguments affecting the summary produced.

- x:

  A `vpi` object.

## Value

For `summary.vpi()`: prints summary of the `vpi` object.

For `is.vpi()`: `TRUE` for an object of class `vpi`, otherwise `FALSE`.

## Details

A integrated profile of biological targets is a specially classed
`data.frame` generated by the function
[`integrate_profile()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/dev/reference/integrate_profile.md)
with the following quantities:

- `radar`: Radar identifier.

- `datetime`: POSIXct date of each profile in UTC.

- `vid`: Vertically Integrated Density in individuals/km^2. `vid` is a
  surface density, whereas `dens` in `vp` objects is a volume density.

- `vir`: Vertically Integrated Reflectivity in cm^2/km^2.

- `mtr`: Migration Traffic Rate in individuals/km/h.

- `rtr`: Reflectivity Traffic Rate in cm^2/km/h.

- `mt`: Migration Traffic in individuals/km, cumulated from the start of
  the time series up to `datetime`.

- `rt`: Reflectivity Traffic in cm^2/km, cumulated from the start of the
  time series up to `datetime`.

- `ff`: Horizontal ground speed in m/s.

- `dd`: Horizontal ground speed direction in degrees.

- `u`: Ground speed component west to east in m/s.

- `v`: Ground speed component south to north in m/s.

- `height`: Mean flight height (height weighted by eta) in m above sea
  level.

## See also

- [`integrate_profile()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/dev/reference/integrate_profile.md)

- [`plot.vpi()`](http://adriaandokter.com/bioRad/dev/reference/plot.vpi.md)

## Examples

``` r
# Load the example vertical profile time series and integrate to a vpi
vpi <- integrate_profile(example_vpts)

# Check if it is an object of class vpi
is.vpi(vpi)
#> [1] TRUE

# Get summary info
summary(vpi)
#>                Vertically integrated profile(s) (class vpi)
#> 
#>            radar:  KBGM 
#>       # profiles:  1934 
#> time range (UTC):  2016-09-01 00:02:00 - 2016-09-10 11:56:00 
```
